
#### HAFSA MIRE
In the start of  this Programming course , ididnt even understand the basics .  I however got the  basics such as variables and was able to build from the TO API LABS.  The last project however made it easy to understand basic life events like the  smart alarms and gave a peek into the background process that is not visible  that takes place and programming role in it. 

 In the last project I got to understand  that it is not only the material that matters but also the interaction that comes with it. This means that programming is an essential aspect that is needed in good interaction experience.  It gives meaning to prototypes.  A cardboard is a cardboard but when a programming aspect is introduced and actions are introduced to the box it changes  its identity. During user testing a cardboard with LED that were run on program did not merely seem as a box any more but a device , a thing with its own identity whereas the LEDS's  light medium express availability  hence changing the meaning of the light. In the project when a cardboarrd box with two LEDS  that brighten and dimmed when approached expressed availability of a device without indication or symbols. This showcased the availability of the system and most users could understand it without being informed.

 
The aspect of creating cross device was more of revealing the background process and understanding it. Creating notifications and incorporating that into cardboard  gave a background peak on how internet of things devices function. This also showed how thing in our daily lives that we think couldn't be evolved can be evolved to be  Internet of thing devices. This shows how programming can be a  useful tool to be incorporated into prototyping to enhance the visualization and understanding to users , designers and also enhance interactive experiences.Making it cross device  made the whole interactive experience more real to the users making the intprototype Hi-Fi hence making programming a resourceful tool when creating the interaction experience.

 When  motion sensor (PIR Sensor) was incorporated and used as a technique  to create the interactive experience . The experience became  uncontrollable and the device got triggered every other second  making the  experience none existing . This  is due to the person  being unable to tell if the interaction was due to them or something else like the door opening making the  intended information  being passed to the user vague. However when the ultrasonic sensor  was used where one can define and adjust  the range in which the device got triggered the interactive experience was different  and more pleasant . The technique used to create that one was adjustable making the experience friendly changing a design from being a burden , avoided to interactive.



This was however not to say  programming does not come without its limitations. It is not only nerve-racking,  but  it can communicate the  wrong information.  The focus on the thing may easily be moved from the interaction of a product to its appearance. During  an instance  in the user testing how the LEDS communicated the feedback gotten was not of the interaction at all but  on the looks . One however  related that on the  improving appearance as a way  to improve the interaction by avoiding the Leds from fading into the background makes the interaction more visible in certain hours during the day. 


 I believe programming as the backbone in a  design activity and something that will used not only in prototyping phase but  within   the whole design activity. To summarize, programming may be hard but throughout it has revealed its importance and relevance in a design activity especially in this course.
